Regular expressions are symbols that allow us to define a language without using complicated and sometimes verbose symbols and notations.

The main notations we will use to generate regular expressions will be the [[2.2 Kleene's and Positive Closure|two closures we have already studied]]. We know the Kleene's closure denotes an infinite set starting with a null and a Positive Closure simply doesn't have the null string. 

**READ:** [[Introduction To Computer Theory.pdf#page=60|Defining a language associated with any regular expression (too lazy to write down)]]

The best way to understand regular expressions is just by doing examples. We already know what notation we will use. There is now new concept that we need to understand. 

**e.g1.** Let $L = \{aa, aba, abba ,abbba, abbbba ...\}$
- For this example, the regular expression would be $ab^*a$  which means a string starting with a, having an infinite amount of bs and then ending with an a as well.

**e.g2.**  $a^*b^* \ne (ab)^*$  
- The first RE creates the set $L = \{\wedge, a, b, aa, bb, ab, aaa, aab, abb, bbb...\}$
 - The second RE creates the set $L = \{\wedge, ab, abab, ababab, abababab...\}$

**e.g3.** Let $T = \{a,c,ab,cb,abb,cbb,abbb,cbbb...\}$
- In a set like this, we can deduce that each word needs to start with either a or c, followed by an infinite number of bs. The RE for this kind of a set would be $(a+c)b^*$ where the operands behind and front of the + symbol means "either a or c"

**e.g4.** Let $T = \{aaa,aab,aba,abb,baa,bab,bba,bbb\}$
- Again, a simple deduction would lead us to conclude that this finite set can either start with a or b, have either a or b in the middle, and end with either a or b
- Therefore, the RE would be $(a+b)(a+b)(a+b) \equiv (a+b)^3$

**e.g5.** These two examples are really neat. Should be read from the book [[Introduction To Computer Theory.pdf#page=52|here]] onwards for a complete and better understanding.

We can also find **equivalent expressions** which define the same language in different ways. 

**e.g6.** language $((a+b)^*a(a+b)^*a(a+b)^* \equiv$ language $(b^*ab^*a(a+b)^*$ in that these are both languages with at least 2 'a's.

