**DEFINITON:** A finite automaton is a collection of three things:

1) A finite set of states, including the **initial/start state** and **final/termination states.**
2) An alphabet $\Sigma$ of possible input letters, from which are formed strings that are to be read one letter at a time.
3) A finite set of **transitions** that tell for each state and for each letter of the input alphabet which state to go to next.

**READ:** [[Introduction To Computer Theory.pdf#page=75|From here and onward for diagrams and information]]
#### Details about FAs

- Simple FAs are just circles with arrows. These are called **directed graphs**. 
- The start state is always a -
- The end state is a +
- The starting circle can have a -+ depending on whether null is a part of the language or not and whether it is both the final and the starting state. Afterwards, we draw another circle, meaning the next state, and above that arrow is the letter being introduced. These arrows are called **edges**. 

- A circle that is empty means that this is not the final state i.e. you cannot stop here. It is a **waiting state**. A state with a + in the middle is a final state i.e. you can stop here. So in essence, the + sign tells us we can accept the formulated word as part of the language.

**READ:** [[Introduction To Computer Theory.pdf#page=82|Interesting examples for practice]]
- - -
**NOTE:** Reading this from the book is more important. I will not code mermaid and draw graphs here as it is too tedious.
- - -




